dr. G here with natural foods diet org
today I'm going to show you how to make
a simple fermented food it's a
sauerkraut one of the original
traditional fermented foods now why do
we want to eat fermented foods well
briefly the lacto-fermentation process
makes the vegetables more digestible it
preserves them so let's say that power
grid goes out well we don't need to
refrigerate these foods or if you
refrigerate them they love they last a
lot longer
so the lacto-fermentation creates an
acidic environment that doesn't allow
pathogens to grow so it improves the
digestibility it preserves the food as
well plus it reduces the sugar content
of vegetables because the lactobacillus
feed on the sugar so it makes the food
less of a glycemic load for those with
diabetes or prediabetes so today we're
going to take a cabbage we want to take
a fresh cabbage I got this from the
farmers market organically grown
I guess maybe not fresh but will peel
off this dead outer layer rivo revealing
the cabbage remember cabbage has many
beneficial nutrients and we make them
more bioavailable we want to cut out the
stem so we slice out the stem like this
we want to save this organic material to
put in our compost we want to be
efficient and we want to create a
sustainable food processing environment
so we just slice up the cabbage which is
very simple you take the cabbage and we
slice it into thin sections if you've
ever eaten sour kraut sauerkraut tends
to be in thin long strips generally
although you can do it any way you like
next we want to take our shredded
cabbage and put it into a large bowl
so we'll do that all right so we have
the cabbage in our bowl so we take the
bowl and next we want to add sea salt so
we add some sea salt sprinkle it in for
one cabbage about one tablespoon of sea
salt and so here we have a nice bowl
full of cabbage and what we're going to
do is squeeze the cabbage with our hands
and we're squeezing the cabbage to get
the juices out of it
and this is also a very good exercise I
think it burns about 900 calories a
minute actually not quite that many but
I'm sure this burns lots of cabbage
squeezing burns lots of calories
squeezing this cabbage so we want to
squeeze it for about 5 minutes next
thing we want to do is transfer the
cabbage into our jar and so we get some
of the liquid here as well as our
cabbage and we place it in the jar we
press it down now we put in about a
tablespoon of sea salt now in addition
to what this what the salt does is salt
inhibits the growth of the pathogenic
bacteria and that's how ancestrally they
preserve food with salt and so it does
the same thing here now one of the
things we can do to add lactobacillus to
our mix here is remember we had a video
on making way well we take the way that
we made ourselves from raw goat's milk
we take the way which we want to add
exactly three tablespoons or maybe two
tablespoons or maybe four tablespoons or
we could do like I do and just kind of
pour some and guess that it's three or
four tablespoons like that and so we'd
be sure be sure the top of the Kaveri is
covered with liquid as long as the
cabbage is submerged beneath the surface
of the liquid then we don't have to
worry about too much oxygen given in but
in order to prevent oxygen from given in
the other thing that we use is we use an
airtight seal on our jar so what we'll
do is we will fill the liquid up about a
half an inch above the surface of the
cabbage then we'll seal this in our
airtight container then we will set this
on the counter at room temperature and
usually about three days leave it out
for about three days and you can open it
up and sample it and see if it's ready
and then you would put it in the
refrigerator now the thing about eating
foods like sauerkraut and other
fermented foods is they are more of a
condiment they're like eating a
superfood so we're not going to have a
plate piled high of sauerkraut and
that's our main meal and that's why a
small amount like this can last for
several months because we have a small
dish of sauerkraut to eat our digestion
to act as a probiotic so why don't you
try this this is dirt simple as I just
showed you it takes just a few minutes
it breaks you from the umbilical cord of
our modern food processing this is dr. G
with natural foods diet thanks for
watching